---
Candidate ranking and recommendation system for modern recruiting platforms
---

**INSTRUCTIONS FOR SETUP & CODE REPRODUCIBILITY:-**

---

* *For executing within Sandbox environment:*

   - Pull the required Docker image from our public repository using the below command:
       
       `docker pull thippeswamyhu/redrob-ranker:v2`
       
   - In your current location, create a new folder named `data/` and place the below files inside it:
      - `job_requirements.json` 
        (available in the root folder of our git repository at:
        https://github.com/rameshwara/candidate_ranking_system/tree/main
        
        This file has been pre-generated by providing the job_description.docx to ChatGPT for executing the candidate ranking system and WILL NOT be generated as part of the ranking process).
      - Your sample candidates data input file - please ensure to name it `candidates.jsonl` only.
   - Now run the Docker image that has been pulled using the below command from your current location where the data folder exists:
   
       `docker run --rm -v "./data:/data" thippeswamyhu/redrob-ranker:v2`
       
   - Execution logs shall be printed as soon as the container for the docker image begins to run. Wait until you see "End-to-end execution". The container shall terminate and exit upon the complete execution of the python script already loaded in it.
   
   - Once the container finishes execution, you will see the output top 100 ranked candidates recommendations file named `team_AIStriversBMSCE.csv` inside the same `data/` folder in your current location.
   
---

* *For running within your own Docker container:*

   - Clone the git repository inside your Docker container and navigate inside it.
 
   - From the root folder of the cloned git repository, execute the 'requirements.txt' using the below command:
 
     `pip install -r requirements.txt`

   - This command installs all the required Python libraries needed to run the candidate ranking system.    
   
   - In same path, execute the `download_hf_model_files.py` using the below command:
   
      `python -B download_hf_model_files.py`
      
     This shall download `BGE Small English v1.5 Embedding Model` and `Qwen3 0.6B LLM Model` both from Hugging face into `models/` folder in the same location from where this script was executed.
     
   - Create another folder named `data/` within the same location (root folder of the git repository) and place the below two files inside it:
      - `job_requirements.json` (available in the root folder of the cloned git repository).
      - Your real candidates data input file - please ensure to name it `candidates.jsonl` only.
      
   - Now execute the below command to run the candidate ranking system from root folder of the cloned git repository where both `models/` and `data/` folders are available to generate the ranked output file:
   
      `python -B candidate_ranker.py`
  
---

* *To build our Docker image from scratch*:

   - Please use the available Dockerfile in the root folder of the cloned git repository.
   
---
